    # INTRODUCTION #

# WHY C

- Desing Futures: C is a modern language incorporating the control features found desirable by the theory andpractice of computer science. Its design makes it natural for top-down planning, structuredprogramming, and modular design. The result is a more reliable, understandable program.

3Why C?EfficiencyC is an efficient language. Its design takes advantage of the capabilities of current computers.C programs tend to be compact and to run quickly. In fact, C exhibits some of the fine controlusually associated with an assembly language. (An assembly language is a mnemonic representa-tion of the set of internal instructions used by a particular central processing unit design; differ-ent CPU families have different assembly languages.) If you choose, you can fine-tune yourprograms for maximum speed or most efficient use of memory.PortabilityC is a portable language, which means that C programs written on one system can be run onother systems with little or no modification. If modifications are necessary, they can often bemade by simply changing a few entries in a header file accompanying the main program. Mostlanguages are meant to be portable, but anyone who has converted an IBM PC BASIC programto Apple BASIC (and they were close cousins) or has tried to run an IBM mainframe FORTRANprogram on a Unix system knows that porting is troublesome at best. C is a leader in portabil-ity. C compilers (programs that convert your C code into the instructions a computer usesinternally) are available for many computer architectures, running from 8-bit microprocessorsto Cray supercomputers. Note, however, that the portions of a program written specifically toaccess particular hardware devices, such as a display monitor, or special features of an operatingsystem, such as Windows 8 or OS X, typically are not portable.Because of C’s close ties with Unix, Unix systems typically come with a C compiler as partof the package. Linux installations also usually include a C compiler. Several C compilers areavailable for personal computers, including PCs running various versions of Windows andMacintoshes. So whether you are using a home computer, a professional workstation, or amainframe, the chances are good that you can get a C compiler for your particular system.Power and FlexibilityC is powerful and flexible (two favorite words in computer literature). For example, most of thepowerful, flexible Unix operating system was written in C. Many compilers and interpreters forother languages—such as FORTRAN, Perl, Python, Pascal, LISP, Logo, and BASIC—have beenwritten in C. As a result, when you use FORTRAN on a Unix machine, ultimately a C programhas done the work of producing the final executable program. C programs have been used forsolving physics and engineering problems and even for animating special effects for movies.Programmer OrientedC is oriented to fulfill the needs of programmers. It gives you access to hardware, and it enablesyou to manipulate individual bits in memory. Its rich selection of operators allows you toexpress yourself succinctly. C is less strict than, say, Pascal or even C++ in limiting what youcan do. This flexibility is both an advantage and a danger. The advantage is that many tasks,such as converting forms of data, are much simpler in C. The danger is that with C, you c
